---
layout: post
title:  "hp35s Observations"
date:   2016-04-23 23:50 -0500
categories: calc hp35s
---
Recently, much to my joy, my son got to that special level of mathematics that require a calculator a bit more powerful than Window's `calc.exe`.  I knew I wanted the kids to learn RPN, primarily as a way to deconstruct problems and segment them.  I found that using RPN in college helped me see calculus equations a bit differently, and as such, I did a much better job and avoiding sign inversion (my kids biggest problem).  So since I had a captured audience, I started with the RPN indoctrination before a Casio or TI could object.  Before there could be the chance for suggestions on the matter, I went for my old hp48gx from college.  This did not go over well.  After a bit of reflection on the matter, I decided that the hp48gx was a bit too much for his current workload, so I started looking for some smaller options

Here's some of what I stumbled on:

1. **Android Free42** - By far, one of the best hpCalc simulators I have found to date.  The software is all open sourced, and doesn't use any pirated hp ROMs.  I was very impressed with this effort and pleased to see it is receiving active development, and seems to have a huge following.  Best of all, the hp42s is the perfect size to simulate on a smart-phone.  Although the hp48sx emulators/simulators seem solid enough, they are just a bit too busy for my tastes.  I immediately installed this on all the kids smart-phones.  Of all the options, this was the best fit, except for the fact that no algebra teacher would ever allow a kid to take a test with a smart-phone.  That aside, this product is very solid.  Nice features include:
    * *Program Import / Export* - Fantastic feature.  I can write programs on my smart-phone then import them on the kids.
    * *Program Listing / Printing* - Good for sharing programs with others... like you guys.
    * *Program 'Compiler' in Perl* - Haven't dabbled with it much, but seems solid enough.
2. **Used HP 42s** - After falling in love with the Free42 project, I figured I just get him a throwback HP 42s.  *MISTAKE*.  Although they retailed for $100 back in the late 80s, these things go for $500 today.  *INSANE*.  OK, I like the 42s, but not that much.
3. **HP Prime Calculator** - If the 48gx didn't work for them, the Prime wouldn't either, but since I was on the calc page, I looked it up.  This one seems to be their flagship calculator and and has a pretty big following.  I just about bought one for myself, purely on calculator nostalgia, but noticed the HP Store was sold-out (*panic*).  I was not pleased, and this raised some alarms.  Is HP leaving the calculator market?  Are they discontinuing their flagship?  I did see some on Amazon, but wasn't going to shell out that kind of money.
4. **HP 50g** - Yes, I had to get one.  Partly for nostalgia, and partly from the panic of seeing the `HP Prime` sold-out.  I figure, if I force my kids into the RPN mindset, I better make sure they have a calculator for Calculus.  So my `50g` is my backup plan.  No complaints.  Looks and feels a lot like my '48gx' with some impressive 'CAS' capabilities that the `48gx` did, but reluctantly.
5. **HP 35s (WINNER)** - This was the right form factor, handled complex numbers, equations, programmable, and most other stuff I thought the kids might need for the next few years.  Although this is a newer calculator than the 42s, it is not nearly as featured, but since I was looking for a smaller option, it was perfect for my needs.  Few likes and dislikes:
    * Likes:
        * *800 Indirect Variables* - At first I didn't dabble with the indirect variables, but as I began to write more programs on it, they became very useful.  I generally leave these variables to programs and I don't have to worry about clobbering them.  I also consider `I` and `J` as volatile and assume that any program may clobber them.
        * *User Flag Annunciator* - This allows me to work around some of the dislikes I have.  I can light a user flag annunciator ant that lets me know certain conditions happened in my program, and how to remedy it.
        * *Programmable* - This, above all others, fixes any shortfall.  Almost anything the calculator "can't do" can be fixed with the right program.  Almost...
        * *Complex Number Support* - This solves so many problems and am grateful for it's inclusion in this model, though it is a bit kludgey.
        * *Fraction Display* - I could care less, but my son loves this feature above all others.  I include it for his sake.
        * *Form Factor* - Frankly, this is why I got it.  It looks like a standard puny Casio.  No real indication of the power within.
        * *Full HP Support* - Full set of manuals, full set of features, full warranty.  Everything a father could ask for.
    * Dislikes:
        * *Single Letter Program Names* - I thought this would be a nightmare, but my solution was simple.  Write a program to display what the other programs are.  I call this program `H` for [H]elp.  It requires a bit of extra work to add a entry in the Help program whenever I write a new one, but this is simple enough.
        * *No Export* - Would have been nice to have a USB cable.  I've written about 5-6 programs and would have liked an export capability, but as it stands, I'll have to transcribe.  Not a really big deal, but an annoyance.
        * *Kludgey Complex Support* - Complex math is only supported on a few functions.  X^Y supports complex but X^2 doesn't.  Silly really.  OK, so I just have to do X^(1/2) then.  Ohh well.
        * *No Continue On Error* - Previous HP calcs have `Overflow Halt` and `Overflow Status` flags, but on previous ones clearing them had a wonderful side effect.  Previous generations would allow you to `Continue On Error` if `Overflow Halt` was cleared.  This means you could trap errors and recover in your programs.  Try as I might, I could not get the `HP 35s` to do this.  Overflow is only for Overflow, nothing else.  What I did settle upon was to make programs `Restartable`.  Before I do operations that could trigger an error, I set a flag (and clear it after).  If the error halts the program, I restart it and can tell what error happened and then jump to some trap code.  Kludgey but workable.

All in all, I love the HP nostalgia and have had a lot of fun recalling all my `RPL` mad skills.  Even went through a few program listings with the kids.  They were patient, but not really that interested.  Ohh well.  I still have some toys to fool around with.